We were just talking about you and Mr. Spence had
divided the responsibilities in that he did the
new construction and you did the renovation and
maintenance. And at what point was it that you
separated departments then? During the tenure of
Dr. Morgan, Dr. Morgan had started trying to get
all of these college activities together and get
them separated from the system, I guess. There
were a lot of them, and I was the only hanger-on, I
believe, in the college down in the system
administration building, and we just built this
building for a physical plant over there, and
although it wasn't intended at the time, I might
have had to taking a little stiffer hand in
southern planning if they had, I moved over there
and set up And we were entirely separated. So Mr.
Spence then was with the system. He was a manager of
physical plant for the system. His job was
planning and construction for the entire system,
including the university. And you were then just
for Texas A&M. Right. The operation and
maintenance of the university. So there is no
college, in a sense, college architect or
university architect anymore. It's all a systems
architect. That's right. Right now, Mr. Elkins is
system architect. And he does? The system handles
all, except minor projects, which the physical
plant will handle. Usually not new construction,
but alterations and some smaller things. I think
they have authority up to $10,000, I believe. That
is the college buildings and utilities, or
university buildings and utilities up to
$10,000. I've had a little bit of experience
working with the architect's office in the
renovation of the Cushing building where the
archives will be moving later on. The system
architect's office did all of that. The system
physical plans office under Adam was the director
of facilities planning and construction.
Let me back up a little bit. and ask you a question
pertaining to a later period. I asked you the same
question earlier. That is about student
laborers. You mentioned that in the construction
part, you didn't regularly, did not generally or
could not generally use student laborers in
construction. This was in the pre-World War II
days, which you had a lot of students in building
maintenance, I mean, or janitorial. work. Did you
continue that pretty much after the war when you
came back? No, it had been discontinued I guess
during the war because You see, at one stage during
the war A&M had a relatively small student body.
Now they did have a number of military units here,
what was it, student training that the government
sent here and they were, I don't remember what it
was, ASTP.
Some activity, where the armed forces had great
consistency. They even had, I believe, most of the
12 dominoes occupied by the Navy. And basically,
full students were the rather low ebb at that time.
And if they hadn't had the Army and the Navy and the
Air Force here going to school, And they used, of
course, many of the instructors for things that
fitted in. Once you take like the old, what was the
old PMA building for years, down where the tennis
courts in that area. Now the Navy operated an
electronics school there training Naval
personnel, electronics, and such. You used the
term PMA building, which stands for what?
Production Management. It's a forerunner of AAA,
and then whatever they call it now. USDA? No, USDA
activity down there, giving people stuff for not
planting stuff and all that. OK. It was a big, they
had hundreds of employees down there in that
thing, back in the early Roosevelt days.
After the war, one of the things I
had some activity in was disposing of old
buildings. You know, we mentioned the Aggieland
Inn. I sold that to a firm in Austin and demolished
it, hauled it off. We had Austin, two of the early
dormitories, Austin and Pfeiffer Halls. They
stuck around until post-World War II. Yeah. Old
Austin Hall was one of the, I believe, not the only
building that sat square with the world. It faced
the south, which in the early days of the college,
the road came up the old main drive from the
railroad station and post office and made a circle
around and back, and it happened to be on the circle
where it sat, north and south and east and west.
Also, there was Ross
Hall, which we all have been for a long time, was
the, originally a dormitory, sold that, and what
was the name of the, building over right across
from the Koch building now, and that went over to
Foster, Foster Hall, and sold that. And then of
course we had the job of getting rid of most of the
houses on the campus then, starting with the group
where the student center was built. We had to clear
that site in order to start construction there.
And they gradually disappeared to where we don't
even have any over here on the Candy Hill. It used to
be called years ago. Candy Hill? How'd you get that
name? Lord, I don't know it was called that when I
came here. I don't know where it came from. That
would be in the area of what, say, across from here.
These last dormitories, up on this corner that's
vacant, right up, well, you know they were. When
you came in, there was still a few employees'
houses along the intersection of the Boulevard de
Bryan, the extension of College Road. Across the
street, down from the engineering building.
Yeah, diagonally across from Zachary Hall.
Across what used to be the circles, now it's the
squares. Well, I believe somewhere over there is
where Doc Asbury lived. Yes. Well, originally, he
lived down here where the post office is, just back
to the post office. And he was quite a character.
And in fact, you have some of his Asbury Room in
Cushing Library. I don't know whether it's still
called that or not. But he donated his records and
books on opera and painting reproductions and
things. But when the post office built, see, we
gave that, I don't know, acre to the land, deeded it
to the post office department of the US post office
there. And we had to move a railroad. Well, the
railroad had to be moved for construction of
Walton Hall. It went down in front of Walton Hall
down the side of Speza because all the grocers were
brought in on the train and went on down to the power
plant
to unload the coal, the lignite, and then on down
back on what is now the petroleum building and what
used to be Petroleum Geology, the one that had the
tower on it. Well, with the cattle pens, the stock
came out. Then that siding was moved and built
Walton Hall. And then it had to be rerouted again to
make room for the four dormitories to come around
and come up outside the post office, just north of
the post office, and then back into those places.
Of course, in 1927
or 1928, we converted to gas and quit hauling in
lignite.
shovel coal down there a few nights. Is that while
you were a student? Yeah. Shoveling off of the
train car, or? No, out of the bins into the boilers.
Of course, you had to travel the thing, but you had
to shovel.
Doing a little bit of looking in our biographical
file on you, indicated that you had been on the
College Station City Council from 46 to 53. I
served three terms on the City Council, soon after
the war. What years were they? 46 to 53. That would
have been right after you returned, I think. I
think Tom Harrington was on that time, and I
believe when he terminated and didn't run again, I
believe that I took his place on the council. There
was no problem serving on the city council? No,
except always that thing hung over us because we
had two or three threats of suit for actions. I
remember one, there was a gentleman who raised
chickens, which was against the city ordinance,
and he was directed to dispose of them, and he was
threatened to sue us once to bring that up, but
didn't. Ernest Langford was mayor at the time, in
fact for quite a long while, and one or two others,
but they never did culminate in a suit.
Let's see, I guess now it would be possible to serve
on the city council and also- Yes, I have a few
that's on the city council. Because of the recent-
I would imagine those years when you were on the
city council would have been one of a fair amount of
growth of the city of College Station, would it
not? We had lots of problems of that sort because I
have a unique situation at College Station that
was particularly more dominant in the early days
because the community grew up around the
periphery of the campus.
This tended to multiply or aggravate some of your
problems because it wasn't a compact unit like
Bryan grew out of a certain area in the beginning
and expanded from that. go around and of course
there was very little commercial businesses of
many sorts out here and particularly streets and
utilities became a problem because they were
strung out.
It's a different place now. It's a different place
than it was three years ago when I came. My wife and I
married at 19 and 30, that's a year after I
completed my graduate work. I was working at the
University of New York College. We couldn't get a
place out of the counter station because there
weren't very, very few. Most of them were down here
in what I told you is College Park. And so we had to
rent an apartment in Bryan. That seemed like an
awful long ways for me to go. I'd try to go home for
lunch, you know, and all. At that point was the old
Tuneville Trolley still in operation?
No, they had been discontinued and a taxi cab
company had taken over. I think it's the one that
seemed like one of the operators of the, in urban,
ran the original Taxi Service Twin College in
Bryan. But I know, I'd learned in my association
with Ernest Langford that he was designing a
couple of little matchbox duplexes. Well, some,
the professor and his wife were down in College
Park.
My wife and I rented that apartment while he was
working on the plans in order to get one to get out of
college. It was
not much bigger than your secretary's office in
this room together, I guess. Small bedroom,
bathroom, kitchenette, and small living room.
I'd be rather happy to get it. Even at that, though,
it was a little bit more than the marriage students
had when they came to Leavitt Park Hall. There were
very few Merritt students before the war. Of
course, they were growing more mostly in the
graduate area. But there were a few. I remember
one, Raymond Rogers, who was retired and lives
down here south of campus. When he came back the
second time to go to A&M,
He rented what had been the maids' quarters, I
believe, over Dr. Marsh's house. You see, in those
early days, most of the campus houses had a little
outhouse back behind the house where the maids
lived. And later on, as it began to get a little more
prosperous and the land students got greater and
the maids didn't live in anymore, They rendered
them out to students.